## Introduction ##
> JNativeHook should compile on all operating systems that support Java. Unix and Linux based systems will require the X Window System for compilation and execution.

## Platform Setup ##
> ### Unsupported (Advanced) ###
> > If you would like to compile JNativeHook for an unsupported target, architecture or toolchain please visite the [unsupported platform](compiling_unsupported.md) guide.


> ### Apple OS X ###
> > #### Requirements ####
      * i586, amd64, ppc or ppc64
      * 256 MB of RAM
      * Apple OS X 10.5 - 10.8
      * Ant 1.8.2
      * Java JDK 1.5 - 1.7
      * Command Line Tools for Xcode (10.7 - 10.8)
      * Xcode Developer Tools (10.5 - 10.6)
      * Enable Access for Assistive Devices
> > #### Setup ####
> > > Create an account at http://connect.apple.com and download and Install Xcode Tools. Make sure you check the box to install "UNIX Dev Support" which includes Ant and GCC.



> ### Linux/Unix/Solaris ###
> > #### Requirements ####
      * i586 or amd64
      * 64 MB of RAM
      * Ant 1.8.2
      * Java JDK 1.5 - 1.7
      * x11-libs/libX11 1.0 - 1.5
      * x11-libs/libXt 1.0 - 1.3
      * x11-libs/libXtst 1.0 - 1.2
      * GCC 4.1 - 4.7
> > #### Setup ####
> > > Use your package manager to install the required dependencies.  Make sure that gcc is available via the PATH variable and JAVA\_HOME is set to your JDK installation path.



> ### Windows ###
> > #### Requirements ####
      * i586 or amd64
      * 128 MB of RAM
      * Windows 2000 - 7
      * Ant 1.8.2
      * Java JDK 1.5 - 1.7
      * MinGW-w64 (Recommended)
      * MinGW-w32 (32-bit Only)
> > #### Setup ####
> > > ##### Java #####
> > > > Begin by downloading and installing Oracle's JDK from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html.  Please be sure to manually specify a location that does **not** include spaces in the path for **both** the JDK and JRE.  For example: C:\Java\jdk1.6.0\_31 and C:\Java\jre6.

> > > ##### Ant #####
> > > > Next download and install Apache Ant 1.8.2 from http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi.  Simply extract the archive to C:\Ant\apache-ant-1.8.2 or any other location that does not include spaces in its path.

> > > ##### MinGW-w64 (Recommended) #####
> > > > Finally install MinGW-w64 from http://mingw-w64.sourceforge.net/.  You will want to choose a Personal build (probably one of the sezero versions) to install.  Simply extract the archive to a location that does **not** include spaces such as C:\MinGW\mingw64.

> > > ##### MinGW-w32 (Deprecated) #####
> > > > If you insist on using the older version please go to http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files/MinGW/Base/ and download the appropriate binutils, gcc-core and w32api-dev packages.  Simply extract all 3 archives to C:\MinGW\mingw32 or any other location that does **not** include spaces.


> After installing all the dependencies, you will need to add a few environment variables.  Open the System Properties dialog (Control Panel > System) and navigate to the Advanced tab.  Click the Environment Variables button and then locate the Environment Variables dialog.  Click the new button to add the following variables and their respective locations:
```
      ANT_HOME=C:\Ant\apache-ant-1.8.2
      JAVA_HOME=C:\Java\jdk1.6.0_31
```

> Now edit the Path variable and append the following:
```
      ;C:\MinGW\mingw64\bin;%ANT_HOME%\bin;%JAVA_HOME%\bin
```

## Building ##
> Extract source archive to a folder without spaces and run `ant all` in that folder to build a jar file.  There are several additional ant tasks aviable.  See the table below for more information.

| all | Compile all source files and create the jar library. `(Default)` |
|:----|:-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| clean | Removes generated bytecode and object files.                     |
| deep-clean | Removes all items generated by the build system.                 |
| configure | Automatically generates a properties file for your evironment.   |
| compile | Compiles both Java and C source files.                           |
| compile-java | Compiles Java source files.                                      |
| compile-native | Compiles C source files.                                         |
| jar | Creates the jar library.                                         |
| run | Execute the bundled example.                                     |
| javadoc | Generates javadoc api documentation.                             |
| package | Creates zip files for distribution.                              |

> If a custom build configuration is needed, use the "configure" task to generate a build.properties file for modification.  Any ant property maybe overridden with a `-Dproperty=value` arguemnt.  For more information, please see the list of available [ant properties](ant_properties.md).

## Installation ##
> The JNativeHook library ships with all the supported native libraries included in the jar file.  The library will attempt to identify the host operating system and extract the appropriate library to a temporary location and dynamically load it.  All that is needed for most installations is placing the jar file in the programs class path.

> There may be specific circumstances where bundling the native library within the jar is undesirable.  For these situations the native library can be loaded from the java.library.path by specifying the location of the binary file.  For example, java -Djava.library.path=/usr/lib -jar JNativeHook.jar.  If both an external and internal library are present, the external library takes precedence.